Expectations
============

This module is a little different to those you've done before. There
are no lectures, no practicals, etc. Instead, this website will guide
you through the course at your own pace. To support you, there is a 
three hour workshop each teaching week throughout the semester (11 in total).

The material is grouped into weeks to help structure the module a little, but
you can work through this at your own pace. The material is designed to take around 7
weeks to complete, with weeks 8 through to 11 there to do the assessment and 
catch up on any material missed. In each workshop there will be me and some 
GTAs to answer questions, help with exercises and discuss any issues.

For the first three weeks you don't need to pick a language to use; it's only by
week 4 things become language dependant. You can pick either Python or R (or both!).

To help you decide, it's worth looking at the assessments. You have a choice of assessment to do.
For each I've noted which language this is probably best done in (both or one); 
*but* that doesn't means it can't be done in the other language!

The last week of teaching (around week 8) also contains optional "mini-courses" designed to get you
the skills associated with the relevant assessment choice. Again, for each assessment
I've listed which of these mini-courses is useful. You can do all of them if you wish.

In the workshops, move around every so often; don't stay sat at the desk for 
three hours! Take a walk for 5 minutes or so. You can work with others and I 
encourage you to help your classmates if you can and discuss issues or problems
with them. The only thing you have to work alone on is the assessment. Please see
the academic integrity tutorial; collusion is academic misconduct.

What we expect from you
------------------------

 * to go through the material in your own time and in the workshops,
 * attend the workshops,
 * to ask questions where you don't understand the material,
 * to work through each example and exercise,
 * to abide by the academic misconduct rules and regulations on the assessment,
 * to be helpful to your peers where you can be,
 * to not expect help from your peers at all times,
 * to treat the teaching staff (including GTAs) with respect,
 * you can use the internet to help, including in the assessment, but make sure you cite 
   where you got help,
 * to ask questions in the workshops; not via email.

In return, the GTAs and I will:

 * Answer your questions honestly, even if we don't know the answer (in which case
   we will find out!),
 * support you the best we can,
 * make this module as enjoyable and fun as we can.

Assessment
----------

The assessment is based around a simplified real-world problem. You are to write 
code (from scratch) that solves that problem. You will know when you've solved it
as your code will pass a series of tests (don't worry, we'll cover that in the module).
Your final mark will be made up of several parts (see marking criteria), which includes
the number of tests passed without errors or (foreseeable) warnings; the quality
of your code, including comments, structure, variable naming, etc.; and the 
quality of your solution (elegance, speed, algorithmic structure, etc.).

You will choose one from five assessments to complete. The assessments will be made available at
the start of the module, along with the tests the code has to pass. I would recommend choosing
around week 3, which is when you will start to think about which language to 
learn. 

There are no "right" answers for the assessments; you can always write code in a
number of ways to solve the problem at hand. Some are elegant, novel solutions, some
are simple, but effective. Some are very readable, others more obscure. Some are 
efficient, some take time to complete. Your mark is a mix of all these elements, 
and how well you pass the tests set for each assessment. 

Test passes will account for 50% of your module mark (i.e. that criteria is weighted as 50%), 
with the other skills making up the remainder of the 50% of the mark.

